W-10696491 azure configuration (#174)
mulesoft/docs-access-management: modules/ROOT/pages/configure-client-management-azure.adoc

= Configure Azure Client Management
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> You can use dynamic client registration to configure Azure client management with Anypoint Platform.

Author: ```suggestion
You can use dynamic client registration to configure Azure Active Directory client management with Anypoint Platform.
```

> You can use dynamic client registration to configure Azure Active Directory client management with Anypoint Platform.

Author: ```suggestion
You can use dynamic client registration to configure Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) client management with Anypoint Platform. Using Azure AD as a client manager enables you to authenticate and authorize API consumers with your existing configurations. Azure AD configuration in Anypoint Platform also provides a stateless microservice to convert OAuth 2.0 client application registration requests to requests supported by Azure AD.
```

include::partial$include-nav-steps-org-admin.adoc[]

include::partial$include-nav-client-providers.adoc[]

. Click *Add Client Provider*, and then select *OpenID Connect DCR for Azure*.
+
The *Add OIDC Azure client provider* page appears.
+
. Enter a name and description for your client provider.
. Enter the following values from your identity provider’s configuration:
.. *Issuer*: URL that the OpenID provider asserts is its trusted issuer.
.. *Tenant ID for Azure AD*: The tenant ID from Azure Active Directory. For more information on obtaining your tenant ID, see https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-how-to-find-tenant[How to find your Azure Active Directory tenant ID].

> .. *Client ID*: The client ID for an existing client in your IdP capable of creating applications in Azure Active Directory.

Author: ```suggestion
.. *Client ID*: The client ID for an existing client in your identity provider that is capable of creating applications in Azure Active Directory.
```

> .. *Client ID*: The client ID for an existing client in your identity provider that is capable of creating applications in Azure Active Directory.

Author: ```suggestion
.. *Client ID*: The client ID for an existing client in your identity provider (IdP) that is capable of creating applications in Azure Active Directory.
```

> .. *Client ID*: The client ID for an existing client in your IdP capable of introspection of all tokens from all clients. Use a client that has permissions to create applications in Azure.

Reviewer: this client ID is not for introspection of all tokens from all clients, this client ID is for creating applications in Azure AD.

Author: ```suggestion
.. *Client ID*: The client ID for an existing client in your IdP capable of creating applications in Azure Active Directory.
```

.. *Client Secret*: The client secret that corresponds to the client ID.
. Expand the *Advanced Settings* section. The following selections are optional:

> .. *Disable server certificate validation*: Disables server certificate validation if your Azure client management instance presents a self-signed certificate, or one signed by an internal certificate authority.

Author: ```suggestion
.. *Disable server certificate validation*: Disables server certificate validation if your Azure Active Directory client management instance presents a self-signed certificate, or one signed by an internal certificate authority.
```

> .. *Enable client deletion in Anypoint Platform*: Enables deletion of clients created with this integration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. *Enable client deletion in Anypoint Platform*: Enables the deletion of clients created with this integration.
```

> .. *Enable client deletion and updates in IdP*: To use this option, you must also select the *Enable client deletion in Anypoint Platform* option. This option enables you to update and delete external clients in the configured IdP through an outbound call made by Azure DCR Wrapper to `https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/applications/{clientId}`. +

Author: ```suggestion
.. *Enable client deletion and updates in IdP*: To use this option, you must also select the *Enable client deletion in Anypoint Platform* option. This option enables you to update and delete external clients in the configured IdP through an outbound call made by Azure Active Directory to `https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/applications/{clientId}`. +
```

= Configure Azure Client Management
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

You can use dynamic client registration to configure Azure client management with Anypoint Platform.

include::partial$include-nav-steps-org-admin.adoc[]

include::partial$include-nav-client-providers.adoc[]

. Click *Add Client Provider*, and then select *OpenID Connect DCR for Azure*.
+
The *Add OIDC Azure client provider* page appears.
+
. Enter a name and description for your client provider.
. Enter the following values from your identity provider’s configuration:
.. *Issuer*: URL that the OpenID provider asserts is its trusted issuer.
.. *Tenant ID for Azure AD*: The tenant ID from Azure Active Directory. For more information on obtaining your tenant ID, see https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-how-to-find-tenant[How to find your Azure Active Directory tenant ID].

> .. *Authorization Header*: The header provides credentials to authenticate with a server. This value is the bearer `${api_token}`, where `api_token` is an API token created through Azure. This header is required if the provider restricts registration requests to authorized clients. 

Author: ```suggestion
.. *Client ID*: The client ID for an existing client in your IdP capable of introspection of all tokens from all clients. Use a client that has permissions to create applications in Azure.
.. *Client Secret*: The client secret that corresponds to the client ID.
```

. Expand the *Advanced Settings* section. The following selections are optional:
.. *Disable server certificate validation*: Disables server certificate validation if your Azure client management instance presents a self-signed certificate, or one signed by an internal certificate authority.
.. *Enable client deletion in Anypoint Platform*: Enables deletion of clients created with this integration.
.. *Enable client deletion and updates in IdP*: To use this option, you must also select the *Enable client deletion in Anypoint Platform* option. This option enables you to update and delete external clients in the configured IdP through an outbound call made by Azure DCR Wrapper to `https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/applications/{clientId}`. +
+
For an example of the `PATCH` payload, see the https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/application-update?view=graph-rest-1.0&tabs=http[Update application] documentation. For an example of the `DELETE` payload, see the https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/application-delete?view=graph-rest-1.0&tabs=http[Delete application] documentation. 

> 
> . Enter the client ID, which is the client ID for an existing client in your IdP capable of introspection of _all_ tokens from all clients.
> . Enter the client secret, which is the client secret that corresponds to the client ID.

Author: ```suggestion

```

.. *Authorization Header*: The header provides credentials to authenticate with a server. This value is the bearer `${api_token}`, where `api_token` is an API token created through Azure. This header is required if the provider restricts registration requests to authorized clients. 
. Expand the *Advanced Settings* section. The following selections are optional:
.. *Disable server certificate validation*: Disables server certificate validation if your Azure client management instance presents a self-signed certificate, or one signed by an internal certificate authority.
.. *Enable client deletion in Anypoint Platform*: Enables deletion of clients created with this integration.
.. *Enable client deletion and updates in IdP*: To use this option, you must also select the *Enable client deletion in Anypoint Platform* option. This option enables you to update and delete external clients in the configured IdP through an outbound call made by Azure DCR Wrapper to `https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/applications/{clientId}`. +

>   * The `client_id` request parameter that is passed is the same as the `client_id` passed in the `PATCH` request payload.
>   * The authorization header comes from the Azure client provider configuration. 

Author: ```suggestion
```

= Configure Azure Client Management
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

You can use dynamic client registration to configure Azure client management with Anypoint Platform.

include::partial$include-nav-steps-org-admin.adoc[]

include::partial$include-nav-client-providers.adoc[]

. Click *Add Client Provider*, and then select *OpenID Connect DCR for Azure*.
+
The *Add OIDC Azure client provider* page appears.
+
. Enter a name and description for your client provider.
. Enter the following values from your identity provider’s configuration:
.. *Issuer*: URL that the OpenID provider asserts is its trusted issuer.
.. *Tenant ID for Azure AD*: The tenant ID from Azure Active Directory. For more information on obtaining your tenant ID, see https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-how-to-find-tenant[How to find your Azure Active Directory tenant ID].

> .. *Authorization Header*: The header to provide credentials to authenticate with a server. This header is required if the provider restricts registration requests to authorized clients.

Reviewer: We can add the auth-header format here, For Azure AD, this value is Bearer ${api_token}, where api_token is an API token created through Azure.

Author: ```suggestion
.. *Authorization Header*: The header provides credentials to authenticate with a server. This value is the bearer `${api_token}`, where `api_token` is an API token created through Azure. This header is required if the provider restricts registration requests to authorized clients. 
```

. Expand the *Advanced Settings* section. The following selections are optional:
.. *Disable server certificate validation*: Disables server certificate validation if your Azure client management instance presents a self-signed certificate, or one signed by an internal certificate authority.
.. *Enable client deletion in Anypoint Platform*: Enables deletion of clients created with this integration.

> .. *Enable client deletion and updates in IdP*: To use this option, you must also select the *Enable client deletion in Anypoint Platform* option. This option enables you to update and delete external clients in the configured IdP through an outbound call made by Anypoint Platform to `{clientRegistrationUrl}/{clientID}`. +

Reviewer: Here is for Azure AD only, we can change `through an outbound call made by Anypoint Platform to 
 {clientRegistrationUrl}/{clientID}` to `through an outbound call made by Azure DCR Wrapper to 
 https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/applications/{clientId}`

Author: ```suggestion
.. *Enable client deletion and updates in IdP*: To use this option, you must also select the *Enable client deletion in Anypoint Platform* option. This option enables you to update and delete external clients in the configured IdP through an outbound call made by Azure DCR Wrapper to `https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/applications/{clientId}`. +
```

>   * The `client_id` request parameter that is passed is the same as the `client_id` passed in the `PUT` request payload.

Reviewer: `PUT` change to `PATCH`

Author: ```suggestion
  * The `client_id` request parameter that is passed is the same as the `client_id` passed in the `PATCH` request payload.
```

>   * The `token_endpoint_auth_method` passed in the payload is always `client_secret_basic`.

Reviewer: We can remove this item.

>   * The `token_endpoint_auth_method` passed in the payload is always `client_secret_basic`.

Author: ```suggestion
```

>   * Only the `Client Registration URL` and `Authorization Header` come from what is configured in Azure *Client Provider*.

Reviewer: Only the `Authorization Header` come from what is configured in Azure *Client Provider*.

>   * Only the `Client Registration URL` and `Authorization Header` come from what is configured in Azure *Client Provider*.

Author: ```suggestion
  * The authorization header comes from the Azure client provider configuration. 
```

+
The following example shows the payload for a PUT (update) request:
+
----
PUT /oauth2/connect/register/{{client_id}}
Accept: application/json
Host: identity.example.com
Authorization: Bearer access-token
 {
     "client_id": "client_id",
     "client_secret": "some-secret",
     "redirect_uris": [
          "https://example.com/"
      ],
     "grant_types": [ "authorization_code" ],
     "token_endpoint_auth_method": "client_secret_basic",
     "response_types": [ "code" ],
     "client_name": "test-client-name"
}
----
+
[NOTE]
`client_name` in the request maps to `name` on the inbound side. +
The authorization method depends on the grant type. For example, if the grant type is `implicit`, the `id_token` and `token` are returned.
+
The following example shows the DELETE request header:
+
----
DELETE /oauth2/connect/register/{{client_id}}
Host: identity.example.com
Authorization: Bearer access-token
----
+
[IMPORTANT]

> Neither the `PUT` nor the `DELETE` are expected to work if the call is used directly against an IDP. It's intended for interception by pointing to an application under your control, so you can implement the correct deletion and update APIs for their particular provider.

Reviewer: We do not need to add the PUT and DELETE examples here. since this is only for Azure and we can put Azure doc here in order to keep updated. 
Update: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/application-update?view=graph-rest-1.0&tabs=http
Delete: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/application-delete?view=graph-rest-1.0&tabs=http

> The following example shows the payload for a PUT (update) request:
> +
> ----
> PUT /oauth2/connect/register/{{client_id}}
> Accept: application/json
> Host: identity.example.com
> Authorization: Bearer access-token
>  {
>      "client_id": "client_id",
>      "client_secret": "some-secret",
>      "redirect_uris": [
>           "https://example.com/"
>       ],
>      "grant_types": [ "authorization_code" ],
>      "token_endpoint_auth_method": "client_secret_basic",
>      "response_types": [ "code" ],
>      "client_name": "test-client-name"
> }
> ----
> +
> [NOTE]
> `client_name` in the request maps to `name` on the inbound side. +
> The authorization method depends on the grant type. For example, if the grant type is `implicit`, the `id_token` and `token` are returned.
> +
> The following example shows the DELETE request header:
> +
> ----
> DELETE /oauth2/connect/register/{{client_id}}
> Host: identity.example.com
> Authorization: Bearer access-token
> ----
> +
> [IMPORTANT]
> Neither the `PUT` nor the `DELETE` are expected to work if the call is used directly against an IDP. It's intended for interception by pointing to an application under your control, so you can implement the correct deletion and update APIs for their particular provider.

Author: ```suggestion
For an example of the `PATCH` payload, see the https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/application-update?view=graph-rest-1.0&tabs=http[Update application] documentation. For an example of the `DELETE` payload, see the https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/application-delete?view=graph-rest-1.0&tabs=http[Delete application] documentation. 
```
